# Fintech-Case-Study
# Lemonade Inc is quiet refreshing

## Overview and Origin
Lemonade Inc
The founders of this insurtech company are Daniel Schreiber and Shai Wininger. Schreiber started his career in the law field working primarily on tech mergers. By the time he turned 26 he left the field to create his own internet security business. After realizing the company was not headed anywhere big, he left to hold a senior marketing position in the tech industry. His most recent position was president of Powermat, a wireless charger company located in Israel. Schreiber came into contact with Shai Wininger, a self taught coding master that cofound 4 businesses. Wininger quickly signed up for the opportunity to help create Lemonade Inc. (DONE) (FORBES)

Both Schreiber and Wininger were both interested in the tech world. They noticed the traditional insurance business model pinned the customer and insurance firm against one another considering every claim made by the customer would effect the firm's bottom line. They wanted to create a company that would eliminate this problem. With the help of AI, Lemonade was able to attract new customers by decreasing the amount of time it takes to purchase a claim. The Giveback aspect of the model donates any unused premiums into the non-profit charity of the customer's choosing. In an interview with Forbes, Scheiber said "There’s an inherent conflict of interest in traditional insurance: every dollar insurance companies pay out in claims is a dollar less to their bottom line. This creates a misalignment between insurers and their customers, bringing out the worst behavior in people. By introducing a third party—a charity—into our model, we are hopefully building a system that brings out the best in people." (DONE) (FORBES)

The insurance company went through 8 different funding rounds which brought in $480 Million to help the company branch out globally and develop new products. There was plenty of interest from outside investors such as Allianze, Softbank, Google Ventures, Expansion Venture Capital, and many more. (DONE) (GOMEDICI)

## Business Activities:
Lemonade is out to solve a specific problem that is incorporated into the insurance industry; insurance agencies do not have a good reputation with the general public. Lemonade set out to eliminate that stigma by partnering with non-profit charities. (add more if not then done)

According to Scheiber, “Lemonade is for those consumers, who want to self-serve, and get an instant, delightful, and transparent experience.”. Even though it is intended for all ages, the company mainly attracts millenials; 70% of customers are under the age of 35. One of the reason boils down to marketing. Lemonade primary marketing channel is through social media apps such as Facebook, Instagram, and Google. Ads are short and colorful which attracts the younger generation. The simplicity of dealing with a chatbot that can create quotes in a matter of minutes also appeals to the younger crowd. The Giveback program helps the company separate itself from other insurance agencies because it builds trust between the customer and the firm. (DONE) (Insurancebusinessmag) (Meritech Capital) (thestrategystory)

## LandScape:
Lemonade Inc operates in the insurance domain, providing home insurance, renters insurance, pet insurance, and soon automobile insurance. 

There are many changing trends within the past 5-10 years in the home insurace industry. One of the most surprising statistics is that home insurance has increased by 59% over the past decade, according to ValuePenguin analysts. The increasing premiums are a result of increasing building material prices and natural disasters. The states that were experiencing more natural disasters such as California during the camp fires in 2018 saw steeper premiums compared to states that were not effected by higher loss ratios. (prnewswire) (DONE)

Lemonade has two sets of competitors competiting from two different fronts. The first set are the traditional insurance companies that many are used to such as Liberty Mutual, Allstate, State Farm, and Geico. On the flip side, Lemonade still has to deal with smaller insurtech companies which operate similarly to them; this includes brands like: Hippo, Cover, Slice Labs and Zeiros. (Meritech Capital) (DONE)
## Results
Lemonade is impacting the insurance industry by helping it jump into the future. Before they came along, there were not any corporations in the field using Artifical Intelligence or machine learning algorithms to create policies. This act helped many realize that technology is your friend, it can be used to help increase customer loyalty by offering an alternative quick experience. (DONE)   

There are many important core metrics that can be used to determine the success of a company in the insurance industry like revenue per policyholder, average cost per claim, average time to settle a claim, return on surplus, loss ratio, and severity to name a few. Lemonade has done very well in increasing its revenues over the past few years since it went public. Back in 2018, the company reported a revenue of $23 Million. Two years later, the company reported revenue reaching $94 Million which is very impressive. (Statita)(DONE)

Lemonade has set its business up to disrupt the industry making it able to compete with the larger companies in the future. Motley Fool reports that Lemonade is more efficient compared to it's competitors because they can create policies at a lower cost. The reason being that Lemonade employs one person per 2,000 customers while its competitors employ one person per 150-450 customers. Not only do they lead in lowering costs but they also acquire more data compared to their competitors. Lemonade's AI chatbot, Maya, asks 13 questions before underwriting a new quote which allows the platform to gain 1,700 data points compared to the traditional insurance company gathering 20-50 data points. This vast difference allows Lemonade to create more accurate claims which is ideal in quantifying risk. Despite lacking the revenues and customer base the size of the bigger firms in the industry Lemonade has shown that it can indeed compete with them in the near future. In December 2020, the insuretech company announced that it has reached 1 Million customers in the span of 4.25 years. Although that seems like a long time to acheive this milestone, if we compare those numbers to the big firms in the industry you will realize that it only took Lemonade a fraction of the time it took the rest. Just to see the comparison it took State Farm 22 years, Geico 28 years, and USAA 47 years to reach this milestone. (Motley Fool) (Businesswire)

## Recommendations
If I were to offer a suggestion to the company I would simply suggest to add drones to their platform and concentrate on obtaining more data. In Mckinsey & company's aricle *Insurance 2030—The impact of AI on the future of insurance*, Balasubramanian paints a picture of the future of insurance. One where every person gets a new insurance policy on a daily basis. The user commits to a quote on a daily basis depending on which route they are going to take to work, how often they are going to use their car for the day, if they will be using the car's autopilot option or not, etc. If an accident were to occur they would need a drone nearby to quickly evaluate the situation in order to report the claim of the vehicle. Part of the praise that Lemonade gets from its customers is the fact that it pays out its claims very quickly. Being able to inspect an accident via drone will help to continue these quick payouts that customers love. I would also suggest to continue investing in big data sets as they already do. As stated earlier, Lemonade has a big advantage over their competitors because they operate using AI making it easier to create accurate claims. (DONE) (Mkinsey)

In order for them to be successful using big data they would need to partner with a firm that offers big data such as Sift, a california located company used to prevent fraud. Lemonade needs to be able to detect potential fraud from users who create different accounts to make false claims. Lemonade should also partner with any company that specializes in large data sets to help extract more than 1,700 data points.

---

## Sources
[BusinessWire](https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20201231005145/en/Lemonade-Ends-2020-With-Over-One-Million-Active-Customers)
[Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jeffkauflin/2019/05/02/lemonade-fintech-insurance-unicorn/?sh=18229eef6cde)
[Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/afdhelaziz/2020/03/09/the-power-of-purpose-how-lemonade-is-disrupting-insurance-with-goodness-and-a-new-foundation/?sh=2f304d147288)
[GoMedici](https://gomedici.com/companies/lemonade)
[GuidingMetrics](https://guidingmetrics.com/content/insurance-industrys-18-most-critical-metrics/)
[McKinsey & Company](https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/financial-services/our-insights/insurance-2030-the-impact-of-ai-on-the-future-of-insurance#)
[MeritechCapital](https://www.meritechcapital.com/blog/lemonade-ipo-s-1-breakdown#:~:text=Approximately%2070%25%20of%20customers%20are,to%20annualized%20gross%20written%20premium.)
[Motley Fool](https://www.fool.com/investing/2020/12/10/how-lemonade-could-change-insurance/)
[PrNewsWire](https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/homeowners-insurance-premiums-increased-59-over-the-past-decade-valuepenguincom-finds-301070517.html)
[PropertyCasualty360](https://www.propertycasualty360.com/2019/12/09/how-this-decades-tech-changed-the-insurance-industry/)
[Statista](https://www.statista.com/statistics/1190570/total-revenue-lemonade/)
[TheStrategyStory](https://thestrategystory.com/2020/12/20/lemonade-insurance-company/)